The project goal is to identify, extend, and evaluate an existing approach, combine
several existing approaches for solving a novel problem, or develop a completely novel approach for
solving a selected problem.



Project requirements are:
    1. Project proposal in the form of a 3 to 5 slide pitch presentation and must be based on some
    existing research work - scientific paper.
    #TODO: Find new paper
    2. Literature overview, search for papers that cite and are cited by your seminal paper using
    Google Scholar or equivalent tools. You will use this review in preparation for the related
    work section of the final report.
    #TODO: Find related works
    3. Development should mostly make use of the existing frameworks such as D3.js1 and VegaLite2 or similar. Do not recreate already existing tools if they are available. The code must be
    submitted alongside the report in a git repository with appropriate documentation for their
    use. The use of existing work must be clearly indicated and stated in the final report.
    #TODO: Choose which one is most appropriate
    4. The evaluation must include an experiment design that validates the correctness of the
    contribution. It should also try to show the qualitative and quantitative improvements in
    existing solutions.
    #TODO: Huh?
    5. The report must follow the structure of a research paper and should be max. 4 pages long
    (plus one page for references) in VGTC Conference format3
    (use Overleaf template project4
    ).
    #TODO: Seems quite short with pictures included.

    Start writing early on and try to complete individual sections when you are done with the
    corresponding work (e.g., write Related work during the literature review, write the
    Methodology section once you have finished developing your system, write the evaluation after
    you have evaluated it, etc.).

    6. Supplemental material should be submitted in the form of a short video (max. 3 min)
    demonstrating the project idea and the results.
    #TODO: V enem popoldnevu naredit



• Project report is due on 9. 1. 2026


3.1 Regular Project:
• Identify an appropriate (interactive) visualization problem and data
• Analyze the data
• Research into how similar problems were tackled (review of scientific papers)
• Propose either a novel solution (system) or adapt/combine existing approach(es) #TODO: Confused about this part








